After killing Kansa, He went down
to Dwarika to rule there.
And there He had to marry five more wives.
First He had sixteen thousand wives.
So then many people can ask a question,
“Mother, what sort of a husband
He must be?”
These sixteen thousand should explain
that He has sixteen petals
on His domain of Vishuddhi chakra
and theses sixteen petals, multiplied
by the one thousand petals
of the Sahastrara become sixteen thousand.
So these are sixteen thousand powers,
which are available to us also.
These sixteen thousand powers are working
in the brain.
These powers could not come
as Sahaja Yogis,
so they came as women
who were entrapped by a king – exactly
sixteen thousand –
and He married them because by marriage,
it was all very dharmic.
Also He married five wives later, who
represented the five elements.
Incarnations cannot be understood
from human angle –
can never be understood, I should say –
because their ways and methods
are different.
They have ways and methods of their own
and they do not expose them to other
people.
Not that they are afraid to expose
or they don’t want to expose,
but it will not be intelligible, it cannot
be understood by human beings.
If you ask Me a question, say, “Mother,
how do you manage that?”
I may just change the topic very cleverly.
So now, I am going to tell you about
sixteen thousand petals of the Sahastrara
and now we can start the translation.
[To the translator: “In gist you can
tell them.”]
So now, to understand the sixteen thousand
powers that you have got
in your brain, already manifesting:
As soon as you get your Realisation
those sixteen thousand powers start
manifesting.
Every petal of Sahastrara has got sixteen
powers.
And these are – I mean the petals -
are made of the five elements.
So these five elements, who create these
one thousand petals,
have got sixteen powers on every petal.
Now the five elements is the right side,
which is the content or, we can say,
the matter of the brain.
The matter of the brain is created
in such a manner
that it has a protective matter also.
So we have grey matter and also
the white matter which is outside
to protect the grey matter.
Now these sixteen powers which are
expressed in every petal
are coming from the left side.
Shri Krishna is an Incarnation of the left
side.
So the sixteen powers which are coming
from the left side
adorn the petals which are made
of five elements.
But these powers already exist
in the brain.
By these five, plus sixteen, powers we do
all our nervous system work.
For example, if you have to lift your hand
like this,
then it is worked, first of all, through
the left side
which desires that it should be lifted.
And then is ordered to the five powers
or five elements: they go into the action.
Also we have in our system
a special type of arrangement where
there is a reflex action,
which is built earlier in our evolution.
So, in a human consciousness whatever
works is not a reflex action.
But now, when your Sahastrara is
enlightened with the Kundalini,
all these one thousand powers multiply it
into sixteen thousand.
So all the nerves in the body get
enlightenment.
Your attention becomes enlightened.
With these one thousand dimensions you
become collectively conscious.
We can say like this: if there are sixteen
people staying in five houses
and they are working separately
and sometimes coordinating.
But [then] a flood comes in.
[Aside to the translator: “Flood, flood.”]
As a result of the flood all these houses
are brought together
and get enveloped into the energy
of that flood.
Then they join hands together.
They forget their houses
and they start using now a new energy
of collective consciousness.
This is exactly what has happened in you,
that as soon as the Kundalini has risen
within you and given you Realisation,
the flood has brought these dormant
energies in you into play.
You don’t have to think that you have
to hold each other’s hand
when there’s a flood, you just hold it
automatically, spontaneously.
So all the energies suddenly start getting
into motion.
So this power where the one thousand
energies of the brain
[are] suddenly awakened, is the power
called as Viratangana.
That is - she is the power of the Virat.
She is the power which makes Shri Krishna
a Virat.
So the sixteen thousand powers which
He achieves in your being
is done through the power of Viratangana.
And at these modern times you know
who is that.
So the Adi Shakti takes the form
of Viratangana.
With that enlightenment you achieve
your Realisation.
So the Kundalini passing through different
centres,
enlightening the different energies,
ultimately comes to the brain
and enlightens the Viratangana power.
At this point, at the brain point,
the Kundalini starts spreading in the head.
She, of course, shoots off from the
Sahastrara but also she trickles down
through this plate of the brain (medha)
downwards on the sympathetic.
That relaxes you. That’s why you feel
relaxed.
It relaxes the sympathetic.
That enlarges the centres.
It brings it back to its normal positions.
The enlargement of the parasympathetic,
or Sushumna,
makes the Kundalini rise in more quantum.
It is all done by a reflex action
of Kundalini.
So the Kundalini is already built in such
a manner that, when she rises,
she automatically does all these things.
So your Kundalini has got the power
to enlighten all your centres,
and to enlighten your brain, and
to relax you,
to increase the size of the centres, and
make the Kundalini rise again!
But the Kundalini has a very special power:
that every human being’s Kundalini
knows Me.
Many people who have just seen
My photograph
have got their Kundalini awakened.
But if your centres are very clouded,
or exhausted,
or jammed together, or separated away
from each other,
then the Kundalini stops there.
That’s why some people get Realisation
very fast and some take time.